# Power Outages in the Continental United States (January 2000 - June 2016)

Mehul Verma, Terran Chow

---

## Introduction

The data that we will be examining throughout the remainder of the entire project has to do with the major power outage data in the continental U.S. from January 2000 to July 2016. We chose this dataset because we initially proposed a hypothesis that power outages affect a lot of disproportionately placed individuals in highly dense and concentrated urban epicenters throughout the continental United States, so we wanted to examine whether this actually held true with the data provided to us, or whether rural areas may have more power outages because they have less land mass, and therefore less of an urban population % in their respective states. We believe readers should care about this dataset and the question that we proposed because the common man is affected by electricity usage, as it's a necessity for humans to be able to go about their daily personal and work lives. The long term goals of this project can also be extensively considered, as electricity consumption patterns directly influence both local economies and environmental sustainability. This makes it essential for us to understand how different sectors, such as residential, commercial, and industrial, impact overall energy demand. By analyzing the data on power outages and electricity usage, even non-data scientists can identify simple trends, improve infrastructure resilience in their respective communities, and promote more efficient energy policies to benefit communities at large. This dataset has 1540 rows and 57 columns. The relevant columns that we chose to analyze are under 3 broad sections that are REGIONAL ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS, LAND-USE CHARACTERISTICS, and ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION INFO. The subgroups of these broad columns include REC: PI.UTIL.OFUSA, PC.REALGSP.STATE, RLUC: POPPCT_URBAN, POPDEN_URBAN, POPDEN_RURAL, AREAPCT_URBAN, ECI: RES, COM, IND (residential, commercial, industrial with their respective attributes being .PERCEN and .CUST.PCT.

---